# Start Here!

Welcome to Codeabode!

To start building your games, AI agents, websites, or whatever else you're working on, you need to understand the developer "workflow".

# Installing

IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment. In simple words, it means the app you use to code.

We use Visual Studio Code (VSC). If you have another one installed like Atom, Sublime Text, or Vim, you can use that. Please don't use Python IDLE or Notepad. 

Search up VSC and install the one on the Microsoft website. **STOP before installing. Make sure your mentor confirms its the right app.**

The default options for VSC work fine. At the end, you may want to tick "Create a desktop icon" if you want it on your desktop. 

While you're installing VSC, you can also install Python. Search it up and download. **STOP before installing.** 

On the left side of VSC, you should see an "Extensions" tab. Search "Python" in there and hit install. That makes it easier to run Python apps.

# Making your project

You want to make a new folder for each project you're working on, with the relevant files inside. Press `File`, then press `Open folder`. You can choose `Home`, `Documents`, `Desktop` (it'll become an icon) or wherever you want to store your code. Make a new folder here called "Code" or anything memorable to you.

Once the folder is opened, there should be a files section on the left side of your screen. A file "+" icon should appear when you hover near it. Press "New file" to a Python file, follow the dialogue, and call it whatever you want as long as it has the extension ".py" and preferably doesn't have spaces in the name. Dashes (-) or underscores (\_) work fine too.

Inside the file, put:

```py
print("Hello, World!")
```

Save it with CTRL + S. Then on the top right, there should be an icon that says "Run".

A "Terminal" should open in the bottom, with the output printed.

# What's a Terminal?

Have you ever seen hackers in movies furiously typing commands into a computer with some weird letters and ASCII art? Maybe something that looks like this?

```
               _            _               _      
  ___ ___   __| | ___  __ _| |__   ___   __| | ___ 
 / __/ _ \ / _` |/ _ \/ _` | '_ \ / _ \ / _` |/ _ \
| (_| (_) | (_| |  __/ (_| | |_) | (_) | (_| |  __/
 \___\___/ \__,_|\___|\__,_|_.__/ \___/ \__,_|\___|
                                                   
```

Or maybe you've poked around an older computer and seen a similar interface?

You used to have to type in text to get text from the computer. That was how you interacted with it. Except, the process has remained and is now highly efficient; a useful skill for a developer like you. 

When you use the terminal for the first time, you see a prompt like `C:\Users\Aditya\code>`. That prompt tells you the folder you're currently in. 

When you press "Run", you see a big blob of text that ends in `Python.exe <file>.py`. That text is a "command" that tells the computer to run `Python.exe` and specify your file, so that it can run your code.

**STOP if you have any questions.**

# Git and GitHub

In order for you to "submit" assignments, we're going to make "repositories" on GitHub where you can store your code, using a simple command in the Terminal. 

GitHub is an app that makes it easier to store and share code. Almost all professionals use it, and you're going to get a huge leg up for when you're working on your game/app and need to collaborate with others or access from multiple devices. 

Go to GitHub and sign up. Don't forget your password, write it down or tell your parent. Instead of creating a repository, click this link: https://classroom.github.com/a/AV3Lnztx

"Accept" the assignment. Now, let's make it easy to upload your code without copy pasting it between projects. 

# SSH keys

To start working with GitHub, you need to make an SSH key. 

Well, what is SSH? SSH stands for Secure Shell. It's a way to securely communicate with a computer on the cloud, and have access to its terminal through yours. If I wanted to type in commands to computer at work when I'm at home, I can SSH into it and use it. 

When you first start using `git` (a tool to download & update GitHub repositories without copying and pasting), you'll need an SSH key because you need to "connect" to the GitHub computer. You won't have to issue any commands because `git` will take care of that. In fact, GitHub doesn't allow you to run commands on their computer.

First, make an SSH key. Go to VSC terminal and type:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519
```

Follow the prompts. Set a password if you want to, but then you have to use it each time you use the SSH key.

Go to File Explorer and go to "Home". Find a folder called `.ssh/` (you may have to click show hidden files) and there should be two files: `id_ed25519` and `id_ed25519.pub`. NEVER show anyone the first file. Right click the second file and open it in Notepad.

Copy the contents of the second file. Go to GitHub settings, scroll down to "keys" and paste in the contents of the `.pub` file. 

Now you can test to see if you're authenticated with:
```bash
ssh git@github.com
```

# "Clone" your repository 

Go back to the GitHub repostiory page of your new assignment. On the top right, there should be options for clone. Pick "SSH" and copy the command. Go to VSC and paste it. Hit "Enter".

You should notice a new folder on the top left of your VSC screen. You can move your file in there.

# "Push" your code

Now we've made changes. How do we push those changes to GitHub? 

`git` has a 3 step process. Each of the changes you make to the codebase are layered in things called "commits". You may have commits from when the code was first created and small changes made since then. It's for version control. So you first need to pick some files (or even parts of files work!) to comprise your commit and commit them.

Suppose you have the following files:

```
.
├── LICENSE
├── main.py 
├── game_core.py 
├── character_loader.py 
├── TOP_SECRET.py
└── README.md

```

You wouldn't want to add `TOP_SECRET.py` to the commit. `git` lets you choose what files to add. So you could do:

```bash
git add main.py game_core.py character_loader.py 
```

If you want to quick add all, you can also do:

```bash
git add *
```

There's an easy way to automatically omit files too. Don't worry about that right now.

Then, you want to commit these changes to make a new "version". You do so like this:

```bash
git commit -m "[your update message]"
```

`-m` means argument for your message. It's optional, but highly recommended to label your updates.

Then, just update your changes on the live GitHub instead of your local copy.

```bash
git push
```

Try doing that for the file you created that prints "Hello World".

Congratulations! You're done.
